README.md, before:

# Muddy Paws Rescue Centre

---

## Competitor Review

---

I have assessed three different type of competitors for this project. First, [Dogs Trust](https://www.dogstrust.org.uk/) which is a large organisation with several rescue centres around the country. The second is [Birmingham Dogs Home](https://birminghamdogshome.org.uk/), a medium sized local dogs home in Birmingham with two centres. Lastly is the [Freedom of Spirit Trust for Border Collies (FOSTBC)](https://www.fostbc.org.uk/) which is an independent dogs home specifically for Border Collies based in Leeds.

### **Pros**

- Dogs Trust
  - Great use of spacing with text and images. Video on landing page draws the user in
- Birmingham Dogs home
  - Consistent use of circles and handwriting-like fonts to create a more “fun” feeling to the website and adoption process
  - “Find a dog” search fixed to the top of every page
- FOSTBC
  - Lots of pictures to draw the user in
  - Great use of colours - green and white makes the text clear and easy to read

### **Cons**

- Dogs Trust
  - Contact us page - user has to scroll to nearly to bottom for contact information
  - Breadcrumb feature inconsistent - House icon used for Home, but then text used for the rest of the breadcrumb
- FOSTBC
  - Hero image and logo too large - the landing page has no immediate information when opened, but you can't see any images either
  - There is a lot of text and content on each page, users may find this an overload
- Birmingham Dogs home
  - Large pictures and text on homepage make the website look a little crowded

---

## Purpose and Value

---

### **User goals**

- Find a dog they want to adopt
- Find out information about contacting / visiting the rescue centre
- Find out information about owning a dog

### **Why us**

- We nurse dogs back to health
- We're committed to making sure the home is right for the dog

### **Business goals**

- To get users to visit our Rescue Centre, and adopt a dog
- To inform users of our location
- To get users to let us know in advance which dogs they'd like to meet
- To inform users of our adoption process before they meet a dog
  <br>
  <br>

|                                                               Goal | What does the user need to meet their goal?                                                                                                                |
| -----------------------------------------------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|                                      Find a dog they want to adopt | Photos and information about the dogs currently being housed in the rescue centre. <br> Information of whether the dogs are vaccinated, neutered, chipped. |
| Find out information about contacting / visiting the rescue centre | An address of the rescue centre so they know where to go. <br> A phone number and email address to contact the centre.                                     |
|                            Find out information about having a dog | Information of how the adoption process works <br> FAQ section for owning and training a dog                                                               |

---

## User Stories

---

My target audience for Muddy Paws Rescue Centre is going to be families with children, and couples.

### **Families with Kids**

> A family of four is looking to adopt a dog that is good with young children. To do this, they will need to look at the different types and breeds of dogs available on the website before they visit. They will have to bring the children to the Rescue Centre, so they will need to make sure there is a dog they want to see before they go. They also want to look at what age the dogs are, as they want one that is quite young, but doesn't need long walks in the week.

### **Couples**

> A couple in their mid-30s are looking for an active dog. They have a caravan and enjoy travelling the country, so need a dog that likes lots of exercise and isn't likely to run away when nervous. They have plenty of room and would prefer a medium or large sized dog. They live in the countryside, the centre is a 40 minute drive from them. Because of this, they want to be sure there is a dog they'd like to see before making the drive.

<br>

| Objective                                                              | Importance | Viability / Feasibility | Colour |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------: | :---------------------: | :----- |
| Advertise the dogs so users can view before the visit                  |     5      |            4            | Blue   |
| Give advice about owning and training a dog                            |     3      |            2            | Green  |
| Give information about the adoption process                            |     4      |            4            | Orange |
| Show users where the Rescue Centre is located and it's contact details |     4      |            5            | Pink   |
| Ask users to donate to the Rescue Centre                               |     4      |            1            | Purple |
| Total                                                                  |     20     |           16            |

<br>

![Scattergraph of the Objectives, Importance and Viability/Feasibility table](/assets/images/objectives-scatter-graph.PNG "Objectives, Importance and Viability/Feasibility table")

---

## Bugs

---

### **Navigation Element**

I created an unordered list of my navigation elements, and changed the list items' display to “inline-block”. However, the navigation elements were sitting underneath the Logo.

![Navigation element displaying underneath the logo](/assets/images/bugs/nav-bug-issue-1.PNG "Navigation element displaying underneath the logo")

First, I tried adding a position of relative property to the navigation elements. I added a bottom property of 50px, half of the 100px height I had set for the header element, and removed the margin from the unordered list. However, the text didn't seem to be align vertically exactly central.

![Navigation element not vertically aligned](/assets/images/bugs/nav-bug-issue-2.PNG "Navigation element not vertically aligned")

I changed the navigation element position to absolute, and removed the bottom property. I added a top of 0 and width of 100%, and was able to centre the text using margin top and bottom, and changing text-align to center. However, my logo was no longer clickable. Upon opening Developer Tools, I realised the navigation element was now covering the logo and it's anchor, making it unclickable.

![Navigation aligned but logo unclickable](/assets/images/bugs/nav-bug-issue-3.PNG "Navigation aligned but logo unclickable")

I amended the width to 80%, and added a margin to the left and right of 10% to the navigation element, which centered the text but also gave enough space for the logo to be clickable.

![Navigation aligned and logo clickable](/assets/images/bugs/nav-bug-solution.PNG "Navigation aligned and logo clickable")

<br>
  
### **Dog Preview**

The dog preview section on the home page was particularly difficult to layout. I added the images and text, giving them percentage margins so they would be more responsive, but the text and images were slightly off center with one another.

![Dog preview section text and images slightly off center](/assets/images/bugs/dog-preview-issue-1.png "Dog preview section text and images slightly off center")

I did some research on [W3 Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_grid.asp) and found information about grids. I wrapped the text and image in a div and put these into a grid with two columns. This gave me the flexibility to space the two dog information cards easily, and will also help when I work on my media queries.

![Dog preview section text and images in a grid](/assets/images/bugs/dog-preview-solution.png "Dog preview section text and images in a grid")

<br>

### **About Us**

I added two images to my About Us section, but the full image wasn't showing unless I set the dimensions to take up the whole page. I had created two div elements and given them background images of the two images I wanted to display.

![About us div elements showing small portion of the image](/assets/images/bugs/about-us-issue-1.PNG "About us div elements showing small portion of the image")

Instead, I tried removing the div element and replacing it with an img element instead. This meant the whole image could now be seen and the images were still the same size.

![About us img elements showing full image](/assets/images/bugs/about-us-solution.PNG "About us img elements showing full image")

<br>

### **Dog Information**

I initially added the information about each dog into a paragram element, but found this only wrote the individual points as one long string of text.

![Dog information showing as one long string of text](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-issue-1.PNG "Dog information showing as one long string of text")

I changed this to two paragraph elements, but had the same issue with two lines being too close together.

![Dog information too close together](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-issue-2.PNG "Dog information too close together")

I tried adding a margin-left property with a value of 50px. This moved the two pieces of information away from one another. However, the two pieces of information on the right were no longer aligned, due to the varying length of each word. 

![Dog information no longer aligned](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-issue-3.PNG "Dog information no longer aligned")

I decided the best way to align this information to the left, but still have the information across two lines instead of four was to change the paragraph elements to two unordered lists. I added margin to the unordered lists instead, and this pushed the information over but still kept the information aligned vertically. My final issue was that although each box looked great, the different text lengths in different dog information boxes was different.

![Dog information no longer aligned](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-issue-4.png "Dog information no longer aligned")

I added the float property to both unordered lists, one with the value of left, the other with a value of right. Then I added margin to push both unordered lists of 20px from the parent div. I also gave the parent div a width 100%. This gave even spacing across all dog information boxes.

![Dog information no longer aligned](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-solution.PNG "Dog information no longer aligned")

### **Bootstrap Input box**

I decided to use Bootstrap to format my form, particularly so that when users input information to the "Name", "Phone number" and "Email Address" input boxes, the form would feedback that the box was complete by outlining green while that box is being written in.

![Bootstrap styling showing green border and shadow](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-issue-1.PNG "Bootstrap showing green border and shadow")

The issue with calling this Bootstrap was that while the box is in focus, but not completed, it's outlined red. I wanted this to be blue instead, and for the blue and green borders to be more subtle while the box was clicked in. I also wanted to remove the red cross and green tick icons. 

![Bootstrap styling showing red borders with red cross](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-issue-2.PNG "Bootstrap styling showing red borders with red cross")

I tried to adding a border colour to the form-control class but I could only change the border width. Next, I opened Developer Tools and found the properties I needed to edit were under ".form-control.is-invalid, .was-validated .form-control:invalid". I was able to delete the background image property, which removed the cross, and change the border colour. This changed the border colour for when the box was clicked but not yet completed from red to blue. However, it only changed the red border for after you had clicked in and out of it. I still needed to change the colour of the border when the box was clicked.

![Blue border added, but focus box still red](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-issue-3.PNG "Blue border added, but focus box still red")

Back in Developer Tools, I clicked on the :hov tab and tried clicking :focus. This brought up another style called ".form-control.is-invalid:focus, .was-validated .form-control:invalid:focus", and here I was able to amend the border colour and border shadow colour to a 1px blue, instead of the 2px red.

![Incomplete focus box now showing with blue border and shadow](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-solution-1.PNG "Incomplete focus box now showing with blue border and shadow")

Finally, I created two more styles but with "valid" instead of "invalid" which amended the green border width and border shadow width to a 1px. I was also able to remove the green tick.

![Completed boxs showing green border and shadow on focus box](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-solution-2.PNG "Completed boxs showing green border and shadow on focus box")

Commit message:

Add Submit bug to README

README.md, after:

# Muddy Paws Rescue Centre

---

## Competitor Review

---

I have assessed three different type of competitors for this project. First, [Dogs Trust](https://www.dogstrust.org.uk/) which is a large organisation with several rescue centres around the country. The second is [Birmingham Dogs Home](https://birminghamdogshome.org.uk/), a medium sized local dogs home in Birmingham with two centres. Lastly is the [Freedom of Spirit Trust for Border Collies (FOSTBC)](https://www.fostbc.org.uk/) which is an independent dogs home specifically for Border Collies based in Leeds.

### **Pros**

- Dogs Trust
  - Great use of spacing with text and images. Video on landing page draws the user in
- Birmingham Dogs home
  - Consistent use of circles and handwriting-like fonts to create a more “fun” feeling to the website and adoption process
  - “Find a dog” search fixed to the top of every page
- FOSTBC
  - Lots of pictures to draw the user in
  - Great use of colours - green and white makes the text clear and easy to read

### **Cons**

- Dogs Trust
  - Contact us page - user has to scroll to nearly to bottom for contact information
  - Breadcrumb feature inconsistent - House icon used for Home, but then text used for the rest of the breadcrumb
- FOSTBC
  - Hero image and logo too large - the landing page has no immediate information when opened, but you can't see any images either
  - There is a lot of text and content on each page, users may find this an overload
- Birmingham Dogs home
  - Large pictures and text on homepage make the website look a little crowded

---

## Purpose and Value

---

### **User goals**

- Find a dog they want to adopt
- Find out information about contacting / visiting the rescue centre
- Find out information about owning a dog

### **Why us**

- We nurse dogs back to health
- We're committed to making sure the home is right for the dog

### **Business goals**

- To get users to visit our Rescue Centre, and adopt a dog
- To inform users of our location
- To get users to let us know in advance which dogs they'd like to meet
- To inform users of our adoption process before they meet a dog
  <br>
  <br>

|                                                               Goal | What does the user need to meet their goal?                                                                                                                |
| -----------------------------------------------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|                                      Find a dog they want to adopt | Photos and information about the dogs currently being housed in the rescue centre. <br> Information of whether the dogs are vaccinated, neutered, chipped. |
| Find out information about contacting / visiting the rescue centre | An address of the rescue centre so they know where to go. <br> A phone number and email address to contact the centre.                                     |
|                            Find out information about having a dog | Information of how the adoption process works <br> FAQ section for owning and training a dog                                                               |

---

## User Stories

---

My target audience for Muddy Paws Rescue Centre is going to be families with children, and couples.

### **Families with Kids**

> A family of four is looking to adopt a dog that is good with young children. To do this, they will need to look at the different types and breeds of dogs available on the website before they visit. They will have to bring the children to the Rescue Centre, so they will need to make sure there is a dog they want to see before they go. They also want to look at what age the dogs are, as they want one that is quite young, but doesn't need long walks in the week.

### **Couples**

> A couple in their mid-30s are looking for an active dog. They have a caravan and enjoy travelling the country, so need a dog that likes lots of exercise and isn't likely to run away when nervous. They have plenty of room and would prefer a medium or large sized dog. They live in the countryside, the centre is a 40 minute drive from them. Because of this, they want to be sure there is a dog they'd like to see before making the drive.

<br>

| Objective                                                              | Importance | Viability / Feasibility | Colour |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------: | :---------------------: | :----- |
| Advertise the dogs so users can view before the visit                  |     5      |            4            | Blue   |
| Give advice about owning and training a dog                            |     3      |            2            | Green  |
| Give information about the adoption process                            |     4      |            4            | Orange |
| Show users where the Rescue Centre is located and it's contact details |     4      |            5            | Pink   |
| Ask users to donate to the Rescue Centre                               |     4      |            1            | Purple |
| Total                                                                  |     20     |           16            |

<br>

![Scattergraph of the Objectives, Importance and Viability/Feasibility table](/assets/images/objectives-scatter-graph.PNG "Objectives, Importance and Viability/Feasibility table")

---

## Fixed Bugs

---

### **Navigation Element**

I created an unordered list of my navigation elements, and changed the list items' display to “inline-block”. However, the navigation elements were sitting underneath the Logo.

![Navigation element displaying underneath the logo](/assets/images/bugs/nav-bug-issue-1.PNG "Navigation element displaying underneath the logo")

First, I tried adding a position of relative property to the navigation elements. I added a bottom property of 50px, half of the 100px height I had set for the header element, and removed the margin from the unordered list. However, the text didn't seem to be align vertically exactly central.

![Navigation element not vertically aligned](/assets/images/bugs/nav-bug-issue-2.PNG "Navigation element not vertically aligned")

I changed the navigation element position to absolute, and removed the bottom property. I added a top of 0 and width of 100%, and was able to centre the text using margin top and bottom, and changing text-align to center. However, my logo was no longer clickable. Upon opening Developer Tools, I realised the navigation element was now covering the logo and it's anchor, making it unclickable.

![Navigation aligned but logo unclickable](/assets/images/bugs/nav-bug-issue-3.PNG "Navigation aligned but logo unclickable")

I amended the width to 80%, and added a margin to the left and right of 10% to the navigation element, which centered the text but also gave enough space for the logo to be clickable.

![Navigation aligned and logo clickable](/assets/images/bugs/nav-bug-solution.PNG "Navigation aligned and logo clickable")

<br>
  
### **Dog Preview**

The dog preview section on the home page was particularly difficult to layout. I added the images and text, giving them percentage margins so they would be more responsive, but the text and images were slightly off center with one another.

![Dog preview section text and images slightly off center](/assets/images/bugs/dog-preview-issue-1.png "Dog preview section text and images slightly off center")

I did some research on [W3 Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_grid.asp) and found information about grids. I wrapped the text and image in a div and put these into a grid with two columns. This gave me the flexibility to space the two dog information cards easily, and will also help when I work on my media queries.

![Dog preview section text and images in a grid](/assets/images/bugs/dog-preview-solution.png "Dog preview section text and images in a grid")

<br>

### **About Us**

I added two images to my About Us section, but the full image wasn't showing unless I set the dimensions to take up the whole page. I had created two div elements and given them background images of the two images I wanted to display.

![About us div elements showing small portion of the image](/assets/images/bugs/about-us-issue-1.PNG "About us div elements showing small portion of the image")

Instead, I tried removing the div element and replacing it with an img element instead. This meant the whole image could now be seen and the images were still the same size.

![About us img elements showing full image](/assets/images/bugs/about-us-solution.PNG "About us img elements showing full image")

<br>

### **Dog Information**

I initially added the information about each dog into a paragram element, but found this only wrote the individual points as one long string of text.

![Dog information showing as one long string of text](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-issue-1.PNG "Dog information showing as one long string of text")

I changed this to two paragraph elements, but had the same issue with two lines being too close together.

![Dog information too close together](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-issue-2.PNG "Dog information too close together")

I tried adding a margin-left property with a value of 50px. This moved the two pieces of information away from one another. However, the two pieces of information on the right were no longer aligned, due to the varying length of each word. 

![Dog information no longer aligned](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-issue-3.PNG "Dog information no longer aligned")

I decided the best way to align this information to the left, but still have the information across two lines instead of four was to change the paragraph elements to two unordered lists. I added margin to the unordered lists instead, and this pushed the information over but still kept the information aligned vertically. My final issue was that although each box looked great, the different text lengths in different dog information boxes was different.

![Dog information no longer aligned](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-issue-4.png "Dog information no longer aligned")

I added the float property to both unordered lists, one with the value of left, the other with a value of right. Then I added margin to push both unordered lists of 20px from the parent div. I also gave the parent div a width 100%. This gave even spacing across all dog information boxes.

![Dog information no longer aligned](/assets/images/bugs/dog-info-solution.PNG "Dog information no longer aligned")

### **Bootstrap Input box**

I decided to use Bootstrap to format my form, particularly so that when users input information to the "Name", "Phone number" and "Email Address" input boxes, the form would feedback that the box was complete by outlining green while that box is being written in.

![Bootstrap styling showing green border and shadow](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-issue-1.PNG "Bootstrap showing green border and shadow")

The issue with calling this Bootstrap was that while the box is in focus, but not completed, it's outlined red. I wanted this to be blue instead, and for the blue and green borders to be more subtle while the box was clicked in. I also wanted to remove the red cross and green tick icons. 

![Bootstrap styling showing red borders with red cross](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-issue-2.PNG "Bootstrap styling showing red borders with red cross")

I tried to adding a border colour to the form-control class but I could only change the border width. Next, I opened Developer Tools and found the properties I needed to edit were under ".form-control.is-invalid, .was-validated .form-control:invalid". I was able to delete the background image property, which removed the cross, and change the border colour. This changed the border colour for when the box was clicked but not yet completed from red to blue. However, it only changed the red border for after you had clicked in and out of it. I still needed to change the colour of the border when the box was clicked.

![Blue border added, but focus box still red](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-issue-3.PNG "Blue border added, but focus box still red")

Back in Developer Tools, I clicked on the :hov tab and tried clicking :focus. This brought up another style called ".form-control.is-invalid:focus, .was-validated .form-control:invalid:focus", and here I was able to amend the border colour and border shadow colour to a 1px blue, instead of the 2px red.

![Incomplete focus box now showing with blue border and shadow](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-solution-1.PNG "Incomplete focus box now showing with blue border and shadow")

Finally, I created two more styles but with "valid" instead of "invalid" which amended the green border width and border shadow width to a 1px. I was also able to remove the green tick.

![Completed boxs showing green border and shadow on focus box](/assets/images/bugs/bootstrap-input-solution-2.PNG "Completed boxs showing green border and shadow on focus box")


## Unfixed Bugs

### **Submit**

On my contact page, I would have liked to have had a message that displayed to let the user know the form has been submitted.

My initial idea was to create a seperate page called "submit.html" where everything would be the same as the contact page, except for the form would be deleted and instead a message read "Thank you for submitting, someone will be in touch with you soon". I've done a lot of research about the Visibility property,and Onclick event but there doesn't seem to be a way to toggle either of these without using Javascript.

I attempted to add the Javascript described in [this example](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_onclick) by W3 Schools. I only wanted to use the button to display this message this would be easy to implement. However, asking the Submit button to both post to the Code Institute Form Dump and change a message visability seems to be an impossible task.
